# Ground logistics model

This model represents a ground transportation network. Cities represent nodes in the network and roads are edges. A table of trucks agents is read in at the beginning of the simulation. There are no human agents in the model. 

## Model components

- `city_locations.fred`: contains the GENERATE\_LOCATIONS condition that creates a network of cities
- `trucks.fred`: contains the GENERATE\_TRUCKS condition that reads the trucks agent file and the MOVE\_TRUCKS condition that picks next locations for trucks to travel to
- `travel_disruption.fred`: contains the DISRUPTION condition that creates travel disruptions at certain nodes as defined by an end user

## Data requirements
`city_locations.txt`
A table of city locations to build the city network. Requires a unique ID, latitude, and longitude. 

```
ID, lat, long
900000001, 41.881832, -87.623177
900000002, 44.986656, -93.258133
900000003, 42.331429, -83.045753
...
```
`trucks.txt` A table of trucks to load as agents. Home cities must exist in the `city_locations.txt` table for agents to move within the network. Note that IDs left as 0 will be automaticlly regenerated by FRED.

```
ID,home_city
0,900000001
0,900000002
0,900000003
...
```
`routes.csv` An adjacency matrix defining the distance between neighboring cities. This data is read in as a list table used to map routes in the model.

```
ID,neighbor,distance_miles
900000001,900000002,500
900000001,900000003,200
900000002,900000003,700
...
```
`truck_capacity.txt` A table of truck capacities for each city. The data are read in as a table used to determine how many trucks can be in any city at a given time.

```
ID, capacity
900000001, 10
900000002, 15
900000003, 12
```
## Output
The model outputs `travel_info.csv` that includes records the distance each truck has traveled when they arrive at a new city. 