# Diabetes Prevention Program model

This model explores the effect of a diabetes prevention program (DPP) on diabetes incidence over time. All agents who are over the age of 18 and are overweight (BMI>=25) are able to join the modeled program. This corresponds to the set of individuals who are eligible for participation in the United States National Diabetes Prevention Program (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2021). Agents in the synthetic population are identified as being overweight using probabilities stratified by age group, sex, and race (Flegal et al., 2012). Each eligible agent is able to choose to participate in the modeled diabetes prevention program, and their likelihood of choosing to do so is determined by their insurance status: private insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, or  no insurance (Alva, M.L. et al. 2022). Agents are randomly assigned insurance status categories using data from the US Census at the Census Tract level. Finally, the likelihood of an overweight agent developing diabetes is determined by whether or not they have chosen to participate in the prevention program using rates reported by Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group (2009) in their analysis of the impact of the United States National Diabetes Prevention Program.

## References

- Alva, M.L., Chakkalakal, R.J., Moin, T., Galaviz K,I. (2022). The Diabetes Prevention Gap And Opportunities To Increase Participation In Effective Interventions. Health Affairs, 41(7), pp.971-979. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1377/hlthaff.2022.00259.
- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021). Diabetes Prevention
Recognition Program: Standards and Operating Procedures [online]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/prevention/pdf/dprp-standards.pdf.
- Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group; Knowler, W.C., Fowler, S.E., Hamman, R.F., Christophi, C.A., Hoffman H.J., Brenneman, A.T., Brown-Friday J.O., Goldberg, R., Venditti, E., Nathan, D.M. (2009). 10-year follow-up of diabetes incidence and weight loss in the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study. Lancet, 374(9702), pp.1677-86. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61457-4.
- Flegal, K.M., Carroll, M.D., Kit, B.K., Ogden, C.L. (2012). Prevalence of Obesity and Trends in the Distribution of Body Mass Index Among US Adults, 1999-2010. JAMA, 307(5), pp.491–497. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2012.39.
