# Misinformation Model

## Authors
Claire Dickey (claire.dickey@epistemix.com)

## Description

This model begins by building a network to represent day-to-day in-person interactions between agents. It starts by stepping through the agents' daily schedules (as determined in the synthetic population) and randomly selecting other agents from "interaction pool" (e.g., the workplace, the block group) to become network links. 

It then has agents share an idea, which is represented by an (x,y) coordinate pair. Each idea originator starts with idea values of (0,0) but with act of sharing, a small amount of noise is added to the values received by the agents being told. As the idea is shared through the network, it rapidly evolves away from its starting values.

## Conditions

**MAKE_CONNECTIONS**

A method for building a "physical" social network between the agents, where agents build relationships with agents that they interact with in each of their scheduled spaces. We include a range of weights (meant to represent relationship strength), although these are not currently utilized in the idea evolution condition.

**REPORT_CONNECTIONS**

Records the edges of the generated network to `network_edges.csv`.

**IDEA_EVOLUTION**

A number of idea originators (determined by `n_idea_seeds`) are selected at random by the meta agent. These agents begin with `my_x` and `my_y` set to 0. They then select a single agent from their social network links to share the idea with, but slightly garble the information in doing so (adding random noise in the range `uniform(-0.1,0.1)` to each coordinate). 

Agents who have just received the information wait a day and then select a new agent from their own networks links (who has not already heard an iteration of the idea) to share to. If agents have no links who have not already been shared to, they will stop sharing altogether.

Agents print their personal values of x and y to `idea_evolution.csv` when they receive them.

## Key outputs

- idea_evolution.csv: records the values of `my_x` and `my_y` that each agent receives, plus the id of the agent who shared the idea with them (my_idea_origin is -99 when the agent was an idea originator).
- network_edges.csv: records the edges of the network generated by the MAKE_CONNECTIONS condition.

## How to use

This model currently uses Butte County, ID, which has a population of ~2800 agents. 